
CHAPTER III.

         
"It is the hour when from the boughs
         
The nightingale's high note is heard;
         
It is the hour when lovers' vows
         
Seem sweet in every whispered word—"
        

As saith that most delicious of love poems that makes us all feel immoral as we read it. It         is the hour when chanticleer retires to his perch in the henhouse, lowers his proud tail, sinks         his neck into his breast, and goes to sleep between his two fattest wives. It is the hour when         animal life and wild humanity retire to bed; the hour when tamed humanity sits down to dinner.         The more we advance in civilisation the farther back we push the boundaries of sleep and         forgetfulness. When we reach our highest point of culture, I suppose we shall hustle the         blessed, the divine Nepenthe, off the face of the earth altogether.

CHAPTER XVI.

THE weekly clearance of mundane books has been made at Plas Berwyn; the skimp drab gowns, and      the ill-made frock coat, whose flaps lap over one another so painfully behind, have been      endured by the Misses Brandon and their brother respectively. At church has been all the      Brandon household: son and daughters, man-servant and maid-servant, ox and sheep, camel and      ass. I need hardly say that the last quartette have been introduced merely for the sake of      euphony, and to give a fuller rhythm to the close of the sentence. The Misses Brandon always      stand as stiff as pokers during the creed, with their backs to the altar. It amuses them, and      it does not do anybody else any harm, so why should not they, poor women? Bob truckles to the      Scarlet Woman; he bows, and turns his honest, serious face to the east. The service is in      Welsh, of which he does not understand a word. He can pick his way pretty well through the      prayers, however, by the help of a Welsh and English prayer book. There are several landmarks      that he knows, whose friendly faces beam upon him now and again when he is beginning to      flounder hopelessly among uncouth words of seven consonants and a vowel. These are his chief      finger-posts: 

 that is, 
"Glory be to the       Father, and to the Son, and to the Holy Ghost."
      

      
" Good Lord, deliver us!"
      

      
"Thou shalt not steal!"


CHAPTER XXII.

THUS the grave yawns for another victim, and having swallowed him, and a million more that        same day, returns to its former state of insatiable famished greed. It is a law—natural, wise,        and comprehensible by the feeblest understanding—that all created beings, in which there is        progressive life, must come forth, ripen, decay, and fall. But why, oh! why, in too many cases        does the decay and fall forerun the ripening? Why is so many a worm permitted to gnaw out so        many a closed bud's green heart? Why is the canker death allowed to pasture on so many an        unblown life? Why are so many little toddling children, not yet come into the heritage of        reason to which we are all by our human birth entitled, borne from their mother's emptied arms        to their small short graves? Is it, as Hartley Coleridge very nobly, whether truly or untruly,        said— 
         
"God only made them for his Christ to save?"

       

Very wasteful is the mighty mother, knowing that her materials are inexhaustible. And so they        lay Jack down in the wormy grave. 
         
"Bear, bear him along,
         
With his few faults shut up like dead flow'rets."


